---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Trickster Spirit Quest
slug: trickster-spirit-quest
date: 2022-08-05T16:30:32.500Z
---

<small>[1474049345792069636](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049345792069636)</small>
You run a marathon up a mountain. You have books. You're ready!

When you get to the top, you are led by a trickster spirit
through every one of your hidden demons. The trickster spirit
makes you fall in love with it, then shits on your head.

This happens every day, and all night.

<small>[1474049348132507649](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049348132507649)</small>
As the days continue, the spirit compels you to walk tightropes
over fields of stinging nettles. You fall. You are scarred. You
try again. The love increases, consuming you. So does the shit on
your head. You are more tired and more in love than you thought
possible.

<small>[1474049348996534274](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049348996534274)</small>
The trials increase, becoming less physical, but more intense.
There is no respite. You are forced to confront deeper and darker
demons, drawn from your own psyche and thrown in your face. They
lash out at you with whips of stinging thorns.

When you hit back, they get stronger.

<small>[1474049349957025793](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049349957025793)</small>
The books were no help. You read them again. You weren't ready.
Every day, you're ready for yesterday, and surprised with new
assaults. You call for help, get messages that only vaguely apply
to what you're facing. You try everything. Some of it works for a
while, then doesn't.

<small>[1474049350871379968](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049350871379968)</small>
There are moments when the clouds part, and you and the spirit
commune and bond, and you fall in love all over again. These
drops sustain you, just barely. You can't leave. When you need
the light, it's nowhere to be found. The spirit seems so
delicate, and yet so strong.

<small>[1474049351752183817](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049351752183817)</small>
The trickster spirit wears your face now. It's like looking in a
mirror. It taunts you, "you can leave any time you want. In fact,
fuck off, I don't want you here. Go."

But you can't. (Or can you?) If you go, the spirit will turn
wicked and be released. (Maybe that's ok?)

<small>[1474049354813960195](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049354813960195)</small>
Time stretches and distorts. Have you been on this quest for
decades, or just a few days? It's so hard to tell. You're not the
same person who ran up that mountain. You're better, stronger,
wiser. But also scarred, beaten, and bruised. It's hard to
remember the life before.

<small>[1474049534703529984](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049534703529984)</small>
Finally, your quest completed, the trickster spirit has grown
into a force of benevolence and goodness. It loves you

It leaves. You are crushed, but now have the strength to
withstand it. This was always the goal. Maybe the spirit will
visit you. Maybe not. That wasn't the point

<small>[1474049536343437312](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049536343437312)</small>
You walk down the mountain, a weaker body than came up, but a
stronger heart, forged and purified and tempered with a form of
love that many never know. You didn't do everything right, and
feel the sting of every mistake. But you did your best, and
eventually accept it was enough

<small>[1474049537278832643](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049537278832643)</small>
This is an awesome and noble quest. But what villain would FORCE
someone to go on this sort of ordeal? How could it be anything
but a living hell if it wasn't chosen and entered into willingly?
How could you fault anyone looking up at that mountain and going
"nah, I'm good."

<small>[1474049538079920129](https://twitter.com/izs/status/1474049538079920129)</small>
All this is to say, I really think the only healthy reason to
have kids is a taste for absurd amounts of emotional intensity,
personal growth, and exhausting shit work. Some people want that,
many don't, and that's cool.
